one of the most striking properties
about light is that it has color to
understand the phenomenon of color it
helps to think about light as a wave but
before we get to that let's talk a
little bit about waves in general
imagine you're sitting on a boat on the
ocean watching a karke bob up and down
in the water the first thing you notice
about the motion is that it repeats
itself the cork traces the same path
over and over again up and down up and
down this repetitive
or periodic motion is characteristic of
waves then you notice something else
using a stopwatch you measure the time
it takes for the piece of cork to go
from its highest position down to its
lowest and then back up again suppose
this takes two seconds to use the
physics jargon you've measured the
period of the waves that the cork is
bobbing on that is how long it takes a
wave to go through its full range of
motion
once the same information can be
expressed in a different way by
calculating the waves frequency
frequency as the name suggests tells you
how frequent the waves are that is how
many of them go by in one second if you
know how many seconds one full wave
takes then it's easy to work out how
many waves go by in one second in this
case since each wave takes two seconds
the frequency is 0.5 waves per second so
enough about bobbing corks what about
light and Colour if light is a wave then
it must have a frequency right well yes
it does and it turns out that we already
have a name for the frequency of the
light that our eyes detect it's called
color that's right color is nothing more
than a measure of how quickly the light
waves are waving if our eyes were quick
enough we might be able to observe this
periodic motion directly like we can
with the cork in the ocean but the
frequency of the light we see is so high
it waves up and down over 400 million
million times a second that we can't
possibly see it as a wave but we can
tell by looking at its color
what is frequency is the lowest
frequency light that we can see is red
and the highest frequency is purple in
between all the other frequencies form a
continuous band of color called the
visible spectrum so what have you had a
yellow pencil sitting on your desk well
the Sun emits all colors of light
so light of all colors is hitting your
pencil the pencil looks yellow because
it reflects yellow light more than it
reflects the other colors what happens
to the blue purple and red light they
get absorbed and the energy they are
carrying is turned into heat it's
similar with objects of other colors
blue things reflect blue light red
things reflect red light and so on white
objects reflect all colors of light
while black things do exactly the
opposite and absorb at all frequencies
this by the way is why it's
uncomfortable to wear your favorite
Metallica t-shirt on a sunny day